# met_api (EXPERIMENTAL)
The Metropolitan Museum of Art presents over 5,000 years of art from around the world for everyone to experience and enjoy. The Museum lives in two iconic sites in New York City—The Met Fifth Avenue and The Met Cloisters. Millions of people also take part in The Met experience online.
Since it was founded in 1870, The Met has always aspired to be more than a treasury of rare and beautiful objects. Every day, art comes alive in the Museum’s galleries and through its exhibitions and events, revealing both new ideas and unexpected connections across time and across cultures.
The Metropolitan Museum of Art provides select datasets of information on more than 470,000 artworks in its Collection for unrestricted commercial and noncommercial use. To the extent possible under law, The Metropolitan Museum of Art has waived all copyright and related or neighboring rights to this dataset using the [Creative Commons Zero license](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0). This work is published from the United States of America. These select datasets are now available for use in any media without permission or fee; they also include identifying data for artworks under copyright. The datasets support the search, use, and interaction with the Museum’s collection.
The Met’s Open Access datasets are available through our API. The API (RESTful web service in JSON format) gives access to all of The Met’s Open Access data and to corresponding high resolution images (JPEG format) that are in the public domain.
At this time, we do not require API users to register or obtain an API key to use the service. **Please limit request rate to 80 requests per second.**
For more information about the Metropolitan Museum of Art Collection API, please visit our  [Open Access Github page](https://github.com/metmuseum/openaccess).

This Dart package is automatically generated by the [OpenAPI Generator](https://openapi-generator.tech) project:

- API version: 1.0
- Build package: org.openapitools.codegen.languages.DartDioNextClientCodegen

## Requirements

* Dart 2.12.0 or later OR Flutter 1.26.0 or later
* Dio 4.0.0+

## Installation & Usage

### pub.dev
To use the package from [pub.dev](https://pub.dev), please include the following in pubspec.yaml
```yaml
dependencies:
  met_api: 1.0.0
```

### Github
If this Dart package is published to Github, please include the following in pubspec.yaml
```yaml
dependencies:
  met_api:
    git:
      url: https://github.com/GIT_USER_ID/GIT_REPO_ID.git
      #ref: main
```

### Local development
To use the package from your local drive, please include the following in pubspec.yaml
```yaml
dependencies:
  met_api:
    path: /path/to/met_api
```

## Getting Started

Please follow the [installation procedure](#installation--usage) and then run the following:

```dart
import 'package:met_api/met_api.dart';


final api = MetApi().getDefaultApi();

try {
    final response = await api.getDepartments();
    print(response);
} catch on DioError (e) {
    print("Exception when calling DefaultApi->getDepartments: $e\n");
}

```

## Documentation for API Endpoints

All URIs are relative to *https://collectionapi.metmuseum.org/public/collection/v1*

Class | Method | HTTP request | Description
------------ | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
[*DefaultApi*](doc/DefaultApi.md) | [**getDepartments**](doc/DefaultApi.md#getdepartments) | **GET** /departments | GET departments
[*DefaultApi*](doc/DefaultApi.md) | [**getObjects**](doc/DefaultApi.md#getobjects) | **GET** /objects | GET object
[*DefaultApi*](doc/DefaultApi.md) | [**getObjectsObjectID**](doc/DefaultApi.md#getobjectsobjectid) | **GET** /objects/{objectID} | GET objects
[*DefaultApi*](doc/DefaultApi.md) | [**getSearch**](doc/DefaultApi.md#getsearch) | **GET** /search | GET search


## Documentation For Models

 - [InlineResponse200](doc/InlineResponse200.md)
 - [InlineResponse2001](doc/InlineResponse2001.md)
 - [InlineResponse2001Departments](doc/InlineResponse2001Departments.md)
 - [InlineResponse2002](doc/InlineResponse2002.md)
 - [InlineResponse200Constituents](doc/InlineResponse200Constituents.md)
 - [InlineResponse200ElementMeasurements](doc/InlineResponse200ElementMeasurements.md)
 - [InlineResponse200Measurements](doc/InlineResponse200Measurements.md)
 - [InlineResponse200Tags](doc/InlineResponse200Tags.md)


## Documentation For Authorization

 All endpoints do not require authorization.


## Author

openaccess@metmuseum.org

